# Determining-Granger-Causal-Flow-for-GSPC-index-Summer-2019-to-2021-vs-Summer-2021-to-2023
This project saught to investigate the Granger Causality Strength within the S&P 500. In my experience this topic was usually reserved for economic data and policy questions but I wanted to explore its use for financial data. For simplicity and for computation purposes the individual stocks were grouped by the sector which they belonged to thus leaving us with 11 groups (for Summer 2019-Summer 2021 and Summer 2021-Summer 2023). The overarching question was how these sectors interacted with one another through their Granger Causal Flow and just how different this would be between these two time periods. To accompish this the following steps were taken:
- 1. Compared the time series themselves in each time frame.
- 2. Compared sparsity structures using different methods.
- 3. Finally, compared the GC strength.
 
Final Notes: You can obtain the indvidual stock market data using the Python files (Jupyter Notebooks) and perform all analysis and transformations (bullet points i, ii, and iii above) using the R files. Even though GitHub indicates that Python is more prevalent than R in this repository this is actually incorrect as most of the work is in the analysis and transformations which I have done in R. I have also included the data sets produced by my code at the time the project was completed. This is done both for convenience as well as a fail-safe to be able to replicate my work (since there is no guarantee that the composition of the S&P 500 will be the same for you in the future).
